- If your goal is to advance
to higher level technical positions,
like senior developer, team lead, or software architect,
there are some essential technical skills and knowledge
you should begin to develop early on in your career.
Building your knowledge of these areas
will prepare you to lead the design and delivery
of entire systems that solve the complex
type of problems you'll face in these roles.
So let's talk through some of these,
starting with the practices that teams use
to develop and deliver software.
As a team lead, one of your responsibilities
will be building efficient software developer processes
that allow your team to deliver changes
to your software product at a steady pace.
That starts with establishing and continuously improving
upon a development methodology that your team uses
to collaborate and complete its work.
Today, most teams have structured their development efforts
around agile frameworks, and have adopted the philosophies
and practices behind DevOps
to ship and operate their software.
DevOps principles recommend that you automate
as much as your software delivery process as possible.
This is achieved through the practices
of continuous integration and continuous delivery.
There are many tools and platforms
that can be combined together to form a CI/CD pipeline,
which can consistently repeat the steps
necessary to build, test, and deploy your software.
Understanding the end-to-end delivery process
for delivering software will allow you to configure
pipelines for new system components
and resolve issues that might appear in existing pipelines.
That way, your team can always maintain
a steady flow of work.
So that brings us to some other types of platforms
that are used to run your software
and handle specialized concerns
like data exchange, security, scaling, and resiliency.
To build modern information systems,
you'll need to understand when to use these platforms
and how they fit into the architecture
of a well designed system.
When designing any system,
it's essential to understand the end-to-end flow of data,
which may involve many platforms
like API gateways, distributed caches, or event streams.
As data flows through these components,
you'll need to ensure that it's exchanged securely
and that user facing components are accessible
only to authorized end users.
To establish these secure connections,
you'll need to understand how security platforms,
like identity management servers, fit into the picture,
and the advanced security schemes they provide,
like OAuth 2.0 and token-based security.
You won't need to code out these security capabilities,
and believe me, you don't want to.
But you'll need to learn how to integrate with
or configure the security services these platforms provide.
Container-based technologies are another set
of popular platforms that have emerged over the past decade.
They've changed how we run and operate software.
This is a very deep space, but if you can grasp the basics
of how to run an application or services within a container
on a container orchestrator like Kubernetes,
your app will benefit from the scalability, portability,
and resiliency that's delivered by this approach.
Packaging applications in containers
also makes them easier to transition to the cloud,
where you'll find other services that can be used
to architect modern applications.
Many organizations turn to cloud platforms
to run their systems on elastic infrastructure
that provision within seconds.
There's also a host of different platforms
offered as a service that you can use
to architect your application.
Speaking of architecture,
it's another important area to study.
Architectures are common structures or patterns
for how the different components in a system are laid out.
These are some common architectures and patterns
that are frequently used to design modern systems.
I won't go into the details of each one,
but you'll benefit from having a high level knowledge
of each of them.
Don't be intimidated by the sheer number of technologies
and concepts that I've presented for you to learn
to advance your career.
Software engineers spend years and decades
learning about these technologies.
So it's not something you need to learn overnight.
Prioritize the areas that are most relevant
for your current role, and that your company uses the most.
At the same time, continue to develop your coding skills.
Then if you have spare time,
interweave the topics that are less relevant
to your situation into your studies.
If you start early,
you'll slowly build out your knowledge of each area,
and be positioned for opportunities
to advance your career as they arise.